README.md, before:

# Frame SDK for Python
The Python SDK for the Frame AI glasses from [Brilliant Labs](https://github.com/brilliantlabsAR).  View on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/frame-sdk/).

## Install

```sh
pip3 install frame-sdk
```

## Documentation

Check out [the docs](https://docs.brilliant.xyz/frame/building-apps/) for complete guidance on everything you can do with the Frame.

## Relationship to `frame-utilities-for-python`

The [`frame-utilities-for-python`](https://github.com/brilliantlabsAR/frame-utilities-for-python) package is for low-level communication with both Frame and Monocle devices and is a thin wrapper around the bluetooth connection, plus some internal tools that are used in the firmware preparation process.  This `frame-sdk` package is a higher-level SDK that provides a more convenient way for developers to build apps for Frame.

It is recommended that you use this package for new projects, unless you have a specific need to use the lower-level `frame-utilities-for-python` package.

## Examples

Here's a simple example of how to use the Frame SDK to display text, take a photo, and more.

```python
import asyncio
from frame_sdk import Frame
from frame_sdk.display import Alignment, PaletteColors
from frame_sdk.camera import Quality, AutofocusType
import datetime

async def main():
    # the with statement handles the connection and disconnection to Frame
    async with Frame() as f:
        # you can access the lower-level bluetooth connection via f.bluetooth, although you shouldn't need to do this often
        print(f"Connected: {f.bluetooth.is_connected()}")

        # let's get the current battery level
        print(f"Frame battery: {await f.get_battery_level()}%")

        # let's write (or overwrite) the file greeting.txt with "Hello world".
        # You can provide a bytes object or convert a string with .encode()
        await f.files.write_file("greeting.txt", b"Hello world")

        # And now we read that file back.
        # Note that we should convert the bytearray to a string via the .decode() method.
        print((await f.files.read_file("greeting.txt")).decode())

        # run_lua will automatically handle scripts that are too long for the MTU, so you don't need to worry about it.
        # It will also automatically handle responses that are too long for the MTU automatically.
        await f.run_lua("frame.display.text('Hello world', 50, 100);frame.display.show()")

        # evaluate is equivalent to f.run_lua("print(\"1+2\"), await_print=True)
        # It will also automatically handle responses that are too long for the MTU automatically.
        print(await f.evaluate("1+2"))

        print("Tap the Frame to continue...")
        await f.display.show_text("Tap the Frame to take a photo", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        await f.motion.wait_for_tap()

        # take a photo and save to disk
        await f.display.show_text("Taking photo...", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        await f.camera.save_photo("frame-test-photo.jpg")
        await f.display.show_text("Photo saved!", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER, color=PaletteColors.GREEN)
        # or with more control
        await f.camera.save_photo("frame-test-photo-2.jpg", autofocus_seconds=3, quality=Quality.HIGH, autofocus_type=AutofocusType.CENTER_WEIGHTED, resolution=720, pan=-100)
        # or get the raw bytes
        photo_bytes = await f.camera.take_photo(autofocus_seconds=1)

        print("About to record until you stop talking")
        await f.display.show_text("Say something...", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
		# record audio to a file
        length = await f.microphone.save_audio_file("test-audio.wav")
        print(f"Recorded {length:01.1f} seconds: \"./test-audio.wav\"")
        await f.display.show_text(f"Recorded {length:01.1f} seconds", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        await asyncio.sleep(3)

        # or get the audio directly in memory
        await f.display.show_text("Say something else...", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        audio_data = await f.microphone.record_audio(max_length_in_seconds=10)
        await f.display.show_text(f"Playing back {len(audio_data) / f.microphone.sample_rate:01.1f} seconds of audio", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        # you can play back the audio on your computer
        f.microphone.play_audio_background(audio_data)
        # or process it using other audio handling libraries, upload to a speech-to-text service, etc.

        print("Move around to track intensity of your motion")
        await f.display.show_text("Move around to track intensity of your motion", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        intensity_of_motion = 0
        prev_direction = await f.motion.get_direction()
        for _ in range(10):
            await asyncio.sleep(0.1)
            direction = await f.motion.get_direction()
            intensity_of_motion = max(intensity_of_motion, (direction-prev_direction).amplitude())
            prev_direction = direction
        print(f"Intensity of motion: {intensity_of_motion:01.2f}")
        await f.display.show_text(f"Intensity of motion: {intensity_of_motion:01.2f}", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        print("Tap the Frame to continue...")
        await f.motion.wait_for_tap()

        # Show the full palette
        width = 640 // 4
        height = 400 // 4
        for color in range(0, 16):
            tile_x = (color % 4)
            tile_y = (color // 4)
            await f.display.draw_rect(tile_x*width+1, tile_y*height+1, width, height, PaletteColors(color))
            await f.display.write_text(f"{color}", tile_x*width+width//2+1, tile_y*height+height//2+1)
        await f.display.show()

        print("Tap the Frame to continue...")
        await f.motion.wait_for_tap()

        # scroll some long text
        await f.display.scroll_text("Never gonna give you up\nNever gonna let you down\nNever gonna run around and desert you\nNever gonna make you cry\nNever gonna say goodbye\nNever gonna tell a lie and hurt you")

        # display battery indicator and time as a home screen
        batteryPercent = await f.get_battery_level()
        # select a battery fill color from the default palette based on level
        color = PaletteColors.RED if batteryPercent < 20 else PaletteColors.YELLOW if batteryPercent < 50 else PaletteColors.GREEN
        # specify the size of the battery indicator in the top-right
        batteryWidth = 150
        batteryHeight = 75
        # draw the endcap of the battery
        await f.display.draw_rect(640-32,40 + batteryHeight//2-8, 32, 16, PaletteColors.WHITE)
        # draw the battery outline
        await f.display.draw_rect_filled(640-16-batteryWidth, 40-8, batteryWidth+16, batteryHeight+16, 1, PaletteColors.WHITE, PaletteColors.YELLOW)
        # fill the battery based on level
        await f.display.draw_rect(640-8-batteryWidth, 40, int(batteryWidth * 0.01 * batteryPercent), batteryHeight, color)
        # write the battery level
        await f.display.write_text(f"{batteryPercent}%", 640-8-batteryWidth, 40, batteryWidth, batteryHeight, Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        # write the time and date in the center of the screen
        await f.display.write_text(datetime.datetime.now().strftime("%#I:%M %p\n%a, %B %d, %Y").lstrip("0"), align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        # now show what we've been drawing to the buffer
        await f.display.show()

        # set a wake screen via script, so when you tap to wake the frame, it shows the battery and time
        await f.run_on_wake("""frame.display.text('Battery: ' .. frame.battery_level() ..  '%', 10, 10);
                            if frame.time.utc() > 10000 then
                                local time_now = frame.time.date();
                                frame.display.text(time_now['hour'] .. ':' .. time_now['minute'], 300, 160);
                                frame.display.text(time_now['month'] .. '/' .. time_now['day'] .. '/' .. time_now['year'], 300, 220)
                            end;
                            frame.display.show();
                            frame.sleep(10);
                            frame.display.text(' ',1,1);
                            frame.display.show();
                            frame.sleep()""")

        # tell frame to sleep after 10 seconds then clear the screen and go to sleep, without blocking for that
        await f.run_lua("frame.sleep(10);frame.display.text(' ',1,1);frame.display.show();frame.sleep()")

        # clean disconnection so next connect() succeeds
        await f.bluetooth.disconnect()


    print("disconnected")



asyncio.run(main())

```

## Tests

To run the unit tests, ensure you have pytest installed:

```sh
pip3 install pytest
```

With a Frame device in range, run:

```sh
python3 -m pytest tests/*
```

Note that one of the audio playback tests fails on Windows.

Commit message:

Use pydub instead of simpleaudio

README.md, after:

# Frame SDK for Python
The Python SDK for the Frame AI glasses from [Brilliant Labs](https://github.com/brilliantlabsAR).  View on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/frame-sdk/).

## Install

```sh
pip3 install frame-sdk
```

### Additional Setup for Termux Users

If you're using this SDK in Termux on Android, you'll need to install FFmpeg for audio playback:

```sh
pkg install ffmpeg
```

This is required for the pydub library to play audio through the Microphone class.

## Documentation

Check out [the docs](https://docs.brilliant.xyz/frame/building-apps/) for complete guidance on everything you can do with the Frame.

## Relationship to `frame-utilities-for-python`

The [`frame-utilities-for-python`](https://github.com/brilliantlabsAR/frame-utilities-for-python) package is for low-level communication with both Frame and Monocle devices and is a thin wrapper around the bluetooth connection, plus some internal tools that are used in the firmware preparation process.  This `frame-sdk` package is a higher-level SDK that provides a more convenient way for developers to build apps for Frame.

It is recommended that you use this package for new projects, unless you have a specific need to use the lower-level `frame-utilities-for-python` package.

## Examples

Here's a simple example of how to use the Frame SDK to display text, take a photo, and more.

```python
import asyncio
from frame_sdk import Frame
from frame_sdk.display import Alignment, PaletteColors
from frame_sdk.camera import Quality, AutofocusType
import datetime

async def main():
    # the with statement handles the connection and disconnection to Frame
    async with Frame() as f:
        # you can access the lower-level bluetooth connection via f.bluetooth, although you shouldn't need to do this often
        print(f"Connected: {f.bluetooth.is_connected()}")

        # let's get the current battery level
        print(f"Frame battery: {await f.get_battery_level()}%")

        # let's write (or overwrite) the file greeting.txt with "Hello world".
        # You can provide a bytes object or convert a string with .encode()
        await f.files.write_file("greeting.txt", b"Hello world")

        # And now we read that file back.
        # Note that we should convert the bytearray to a string via the .decode() method.
        print((await f.files.read_file("greeting.txt")).decode())

        # run_lua will automatically handle scripts that are too long for the MTU, so you don't need to worry about it.
        # It will also automatically handle responses that are too long for the MTU automatically.
        await f.run_lua("frame.display.text('Hello world', 50, 100);frame.display.show()")

        # evaluate is equivalent to f.run_lua("print(\"1+2\"), await_print=True)
        # It will also automatically handle responses that are too long for the MTU automatically.
        print(await f.evaluate("1+2"))

        print("Tap the Frame to continue...")
        await f.display.show_text("Tap the Frame to take a photo", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        await f.motion.wait_for_tap()

        # take a photo and save to disk
        await f.display.show_text("Taking photo...", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        await f.camera.save_photo("frame-test-photo.jpg")
        await f.display.show_text("Photo saved!", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER, color=PaletteColors.GREEN)
        # or with more control
        await f.camera.save_photo("frame-test-photo-2.jpg", autofocus_seconds=3, quality=Quality.HIGH, autofocus_type=AutofocusType.CENTER_WEIGHTED, resolution=720, pan=-100)
        # or get the raw bytes
        photo_bytes = await f.camera.take_photo(autofocus_seconds=1)

        print("About to record until you stop talking")
        await f.display.show_text("Say something...", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
		# record audio to a file
        length = await f.microphone.save_audio_file("test-audio.wav")
        print(f"Recorded {length:01.1f} seconds: \"./test-audio.wav\"")
        await f.display.show_text(f"Recorded {length:01.1f} seconds", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        await asyncio.sleep(3)

        # or get the audio directly in memory
        await f.display.show_text("Say something else...", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        audio_data = await f.microphone.record_audio(max_length_in_seconds=10)
        await f.display.show_text(f"Playing back {len(audio_data) / f.microphone.sample_rate:01.1f} seconds of audio", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        # you can play back the audio on your computer
        f.microphone.play_audio_background(audio_data)
        # or process it using other audio handling libraries, upload to a speech-to-text service, etc.

        print("Move around to track intensity of your motion")
        await f.display.show_text("Move around to track intensity of your motion", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        intensity_of_motion = 0
        prev_direction = await f.motion.get_direction()
        for _ in range(10):
            await asyncio.sleep(0.1)
            direction = await f.motion.get_direction()
            intensity_of_motion = max(intensity_of_motion, (direction-prev_direction).amplitude())
            prev_direction = direction
        print(f"Intensity of motion: {intensity_of_motion:01.2f}")
        await f.display.show_text(f"Intensity of motion: {intensity_of_motion:01.2f}", align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        print("Tap the Frame to continue...")
        await f.motion.wait_for_tap()

        # Show the full palette
        width = 640 // 4
        height = 400 // 4
        for color in range(0, 16):
            tile_x = (color % 4)
            tile_y = (color // 4)
            await f.display.draw_rect(tile_x*width+1, tile_y*height+1, width, height, PaletteColors(color))
            await f.display.write_text(f"{color}", tile_x*width+width//2+1, tile_y*height+height//2+1)
        await f.display.show()

        print("Tap the Frame to continue...")
        await f.motion.wait_for_tap()

        # scroll some long text
        await f.display.scroll_text("Never gonna give you up\nNever gonna let you down\nNever gonna run around and desert you\nNever gonna make you cry\nNever gonna say goodbye\nNever gonna tell a lie and hurt you")

        # display battery indicator and time as a home screen
        batteryPercent = await f.get_battery_level()
        # select a battery fill color from the default palette based on level
        color = PaletteColors.RED if batteryPercent < 20 else PaletteColors.YELLOW if batteryPercent < 50 else PaletteColors.GREEN
        # specify the size of the battery indicator in the top-right
        batteryWidth = 150
        batteryHeight = 75
        # draw the endcap of the battery
        await f.display.draw_rect(640-32,40 + batteryHeight//2-8, 32, 16, PaletteColors.WHITE)
        # draw the battery outline
        await f.display.draw_rect_filled(640-16-batteryWidth, 40-8, batteryWidth+16, batteryHeight+16, 1, PaletteColors.WHITE, PaletteColors.YELLOW)
        # fill the battery based on level
        await f.display.draw_rect(640-8-batteryWidth, 40, int(batteryWidth * 0.01 * batteryPercent), batteryHeight, color)
        # write the battery level
        await f.display.write_text(f"{batteryPercent}%", 640-8-batteryWidth, 40, batteryWidth, batteryHeight, Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        # write the time and date in the center of the screen
        await f.display.write_text(datetime.datetime.now().strftime("%#I:%M %p\n%a, %B %d, %Y").lstrip("0"), align=Alignment.MIDDLE_CENTER)
        # now show what we've been drawing to the buffer
        await f.display.show()

        # set a wake screen via script, so when you tap to wake the frame, it shows the battery and time
        await f.run_on_wake("""frame.display.text('Battery: ' .. frame.battery_level() ..  '%', 10, 10);
                            if frame.time.utc() > 10000 then
                                local time_now = frame.time.date();
                                frame.display.text(time_now['hour'] .. ':' .. time_now['minute'], 300, 160);
                                frame.display.text(time_now['month'] .. '/' .. time_now['day'] .. '/' .. time_now['year'], 300, 220)
                            end;
                            frame.display.show();
                            frame.sleep(10);
                            frame.display.text(' ',1,1);
                            frame.display.show();
                            frame.sleep()""")

        # tell frame to sleep after 10 seconds then clear the screen and go to sleep, without blocking for that
        await f.run_lua("frame.sleep(10);frame.display.text(' ',1,1);frame.display.show();frame.sleep()")

        # clean disconnection so next connect() succeeds
        await f.bluetooth.disconnect()


    print("disconnected")



asyncio.run(main())

```

## Tests

To run the unit tests, ensure you have pytest installed:

```sh
pip3 install pytest
```

With a Frame device in range, run:

```sh
python3 -m pytest tests/*
```

Note that one of the audio playback tests fails on Windows.
